requestor-pays-access (#662)
2i2c-org/pilot-hubs: docs/howto/configure/data-access.md

# Data Access

Here we will document various ways to grant hubs access to external data.

## Data Access via Requester Pays

For some hubs, such as our Pangeo deployments, the communities they serve require access to data stored in other projects.
Accessing data normally comes with a charge that the folks _hosting_ the data have to take care of.
However, there is a method by which those making the request are responsible for the charges instead: [Requester Pays](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/requester-pays).
This section demonstrates the steps required to setup this method.

> ## Setting up Requester Pays Access on GCP

Author: ```suggestion
### Setting up Requester Pays Access on GCP
```

```{note}
We may automate these steps in the future.
```

Make sure you are logged into the `gcloud` CLI and have set the default project to be the one you wish to work with.

```{note}
Steps 1 and 2 only need to be run **when you create a new cluster**!

From step 3 onwards only need to be repeated when **adding a new hub to an already existing cluster**!
```

1. Create a new Service Account

```bash
gcloud iam service-accounts create requester-pays-sa \

>   --description="Service Account to allow access to Pangeo data stored in the cloud" \

Author: ```suggestion
  --description="Service Account to allow access to external data stored elsewhere in the cloud" \
```
